Yeah, so we learned about keyboard
shortcuts, we learned about skip links.
In a little bit, we're gonna get
to make a skip link together.
But I just kinda wanna keep talking about
some of these, I guess more advanced
techniques that require a little
bit more JavaScript or CSS.
But can be really helpful for folks.
So before we get into that, I just wanted
to cover sort of the basics of tab
navigation, which we already
used in a few examples.
But the basic idea is for keyboard
only users that they will tab through
the website and use Shift Tab to
go backwards through the website.
And so this is what means when it says
all page functionality is available
using the keyboard.
It's that you should be able to Tab and
Shift Tab through an entire website.
Again, back to these compliance levels,
I kinda mentioned this
at the very beginning.
So if you're going for the level
A compliance, then with the WCAG and
what WebAIM is saying is that everything
should be keyboard accessible
unless it's something that just can't
be accomplished with a keyboard.
And their example, like mine earlier,
was a freehand drawing tool.
So that's enough just with a label to
get you to the level A compliance.
If you need to be triple A compliance,
that means that literally 100% of the page
functionality needs to be
available to a keyboard only.
So, if you're going for triple A
compliance and you have a freehand drawing
tool, you've kind of got your work cut out
for you hitting that compliance level, but
again, it kinda shows
the flexibility here, I think.
Hitting level A is plenty enough just to
say, hey, you've hit a component that is
not accessible, and show people how to
move on basically with the keyboard only.
So one thing that's important to know when
you're making your HTML is what kind of
things will be tabable and
what kind of things won't be tabable.
So we've seen links and form fields
already, but there's quite a few things.
So the list of tabbable elements
in a shortlist are anchors,
buttons, inputs, selects,
textareas and iframes.
We'll get into those in a little bit,
but I have a GitHub repo here which
is a living list of literally
every tabbable element.
I can make this a little bit bigger but
it basically just exports this giant list
of every single thing in HTML that you
might have that could be tabbable.
So, if you ever need to
write some code where it's,
grab all focusable elements in DOM or
whatever, you can use Library.
Alternatively, you could just pass in
the main ones like you can say, grab all
the inputs and buttons and anchors but
this is a more comprehensive list.
And that's at github.com/jcoop/vocable.
So yeah, so there's a lot of them for
the most part it's just the interactive
elements right anchors and buttons.
Another thing that we've seen is that
there will be times where you need to make
a non tabbable element tabbable and so you
can use the tab index attribute to do so.
So here's an example of taking a div,
which would normally not be tabbable,
adding tab index to it and
then it is focusable.
So tabindex takes three
different types of values.
It takes a negative value,
any negative values.
It means that it should still be
able to be called focus on but
it plucks it out of the keyboard tabindex.
So you can think about
the browser loads up your site,
it does a query similar to my focusable 1,
and grabs everything that's tabbable and
it puts them in an array.
And so when you hit Tab, it just pops
your focus to the next item in the array.
Sometimes, you'll wanna be able to call
.focus on an item with JavaScript, but
you don't want the user to tab to it.
In which case you can take an anchor,
an input or
something that's already tabbable,
you can give it a negative tabindex.
0 means that it will be focusable and
it will be tabbable in the order
that it sort of comes in.
So, wherever it is, like if this div
is here, then after I Tab to this link,
it'll Tab to this div, so wherever it
would fall in the natural DOM order.
And then a positive value very much
those familiar with Z index in HTML or
CSS, a positive value then
can bump it to the top.
So the higher the positive number,
the earlier it shows.
So for an example earlier, we talked about
making a div and it said something like,
hey, we have cool keyboard shortcuts,
hit question mark to see them.
Earlier we talked about, well, then just
stick that div at the very top of the DOM,
right, on your opening body tag.
Another option is you can put it
anywhere in the DOM that you want and
give it a positive tabindex
number as long as it's higher.
Then on the other tabindex numbers, it'll
be the first thing that gets tabbed too.
It was just kind of funny,
I was on MDN's page for it and
there's a warning that says the maximum
value for tabindex is 32767.
Which gave me nightmares to think
about a code base where you
would need to get that high.
It's kind of funny I did
a little bit looking in and
it's like they use a 16 bit integer or
whatever for it, and
that's like the largest number
that can be assigned to it.
So don't go too high,
don't go over 32,000.
As a little example here, I just have
these buttons, get through this tweet.
And so if you see, like the blue
glow around the left, so I can,
tab to go to the right and then I can
shift tab to go back to the left.
So that's just kind of the behavior
that folks will expect.
Things get a little bit complicated,
were for example,
let's say you have a navigation.
So a user would expect to be able
to tab through each nav item but
let's say one of those navigation
items was like a dot, dot, dot.
And when you click on it,
it brings up a drop down, right?
Of account setting, sign out,
stuff like that, we see that pretty often.
So in that sense, because the drop
down is a list of children belonging
to the ...menu item, the expected
behavior is going to be tab over to it,
Enter to bring up the drop down, and
then the arrow keys to move around.
This is a little bit subjective,
but for the most part,
it's like top level elements,
should be tabbable.
And then lists of children should be
arrow keyable, because that's kind
of the default of how it would work
with just HTML if you did a list.
It's just something to keep in mind.
So as a user, if you're trying to
tab something, you can't tab to it,
try the arrow keys if
it's in a child element.
And as a developer, there's often
circumstances like a drop down from
a button where the button should be
tabbable, but the drop down items,
the expectation is to be arrow keys.
Another thing to keep in mind is,
for a lot of this stuff,
if you use any sort of design system,
like Google Material or React Spectrum or
any of those open source design systems.
They'll come with a ton of
accessibility work out of the box,
including if you had a button
with a drop down in it,
they would already take care of
all that keyboard control for you.
Or Twitter Bootstrap is another example.
So if you use one of those,
they'll come with a lot of this stuff.